>What is Amazon Lex?
Amazon Lex is a service for making conversational interfaces into any application using text and voice.
1.It provides high-level deep learning capabilities of automatic speech recognition for transform speech to text.
2.It also enabled natural language understanding to recollect the intent of the text, to enable us to create applications with highly attractive user experiences and lifelike conversational communication.
3.With Amazon Lex, you can rapidly and smoothly build natural language conversational bots (chatbots).

>How Amazon Lex Works?
1.Amazon Lex works on the same technology as Alexa.
2.It combined with AWS Lambda which we are able to use without difficulty trigger features for the execution of our back-end business logic for information retrieval and updates.
3.Once built, our bot can be used directly to chat platforms, IoT devices, and mobile clients.
4.It provides a secure, scalable, easy-to-use, end-to-end solution to build, monitor, and publish our bots.

>Key Features Of Amazon Lex
1.Amazon Lex offers fully automatic speech recognition and natural language understanding technologies to generate a Speech-Language Understanding system.
2.Its bots provide the capacity for multi-turn conversations.
3.it helps context control natively, so you can manage the context immediately without the want for custom code.
4.It provides two types of prompts:

a.)confirmation prompts
b.)error-handling prompts
5.It natively enables integration with AWS Lambda for fact retrieval, updates, and commercial enterprise logic execution.
6.It allows you to simply publish your bot to chat services precisely from the Amazon Lex console, eliminating multi-platform development efforts.
7.It supports an 8 kHz Telephony Audio.

>Use Cases Of Amazon Lex
1) Call Center Voice Assistants and Chatbots->
With Amazon Lex chatbot in a call center, callers can do tasks such as requesting a balance on an account, password change, or arrange an appointment, without the need to speak to an agent.
These chatbots work on automatic speech recognition and natural language understanding to examine a caller’s intent, maintain context, and fluidly control the conversation.
2) QnA Bots and Informational Bots->
With Amazon Lex creation of chatbots for the everyday user, requests are very simple such as accessing the game scores, latest news updates, or weather updates. After you create your Lex bot, you can use them on chat services, mobile devices, and IoT devices, with support for rich message formatting.
3) Application Bots->
We can easily integrate a voice or text chat interface to create bots on smartphone devices that can help customers with many daily tasks, such as accessing their bank account, ordering food, booking tickets, or calling a cab. It easily connects with Amazon Cognito so you can control user management, authentication, and sync across all devices.
4) Enterprise Productivity chatbots->
We can use Lex to develop enterprise productive chatbots that establish common work activities and improve Enterprise efficiencies. For example, in marketing performance from HubSpot, employees can check sales data from Salesforce, and customer service status from Zendesk, directly from their chatbots within minutes.

>Amazon Lex Pricing
With Amazon Lex, you pay most effectively for what you use. It is charged you based on the number of voice or text requests processed by your bot. at $0.00075 per text request and $0.004 per voice request.
you can attempt Amazon Lex without spending a dime. From the date you get began with it, you can proceed up to 10,000 text requests and five,000 speech requests in step with a month totally free for the primary year.

Reference-https://k21academy.com/amazon-web-services/aws-ml/amazon-lex/
